Hello educators!
This video introduces positive behavior
interventions and supports PBIs.
PBIs is not a program
or a good job pencil.
It's a framework.
This means it's
not something you add on to your day.
Instead, it's a way of organizing
your school systems, practices,
and data to support positive behavior
and improve school climate.
PBIs helps schools move
from reactive discipline
to proactive support.
It's about teaching behavior the same way
we teach academics through modeling,
practice, feedback and reinforcement
to implement PBIs with fidelity.
Schools focus on 12 essential elements.
These elements help schools
build a strong foundation of processes
and procedures, and ensures
PBIs is not just a set of posters
or rewards,
but a meaningful part of school culture.
PBIs supports every learner,
not just those with behavioral challenges.
It's designed to be inclusive, equitable,
and responsive
to the diverse needs of students
in New Brunswick schools.
Implementing this framework helps
to foster a more positive
learning and working environment
for students and staff.
This support students
to feel seen, supported and successful
when school community consistently
support students to understand
and meet behavioral expectations.
They are better able to focus on
learning and achieving academic success
when school wide expectations
and consequences are clear and consistent.
Students
feel safe in their learning environments.
This results in improved academic
and social emotional growth.
According to Doctor
Jessica Cibrian, Hannigan and Doctor
Linda Hauser,
authors of the PBIs tier one Handbook,
the old way of doing business to address
student behavior is not working.
We can no longer accept or afford the wait
to fail
or wait to misbehave model of behavior.
We must be proactive.
Effective PBIs implementation includes
defining clear behavioral expectations
for all students,
staff, and school
community across all settings.
Explicitly teaching those expectations,
reinforcing positive behavior
consistently and meaningfully, using data
to guide decisions and monitor progress.
Responding to misbehavior with support
and instruction, not just consequences.
Empowering staff
with professional learning
based on a school's unique needs.
PBIs is not about fixing students.
It's about building systems
that help everyone succeed.
It's a journey of growth,
reflection, and collaboration.
Thank you for your commitment
to creating safe, inclusive schools.
For more information on PBIs,
please visit the New Brunswick
PBIs website at PBIs dot envy Edeka.
The work you do matters.